The tcpdump tool is a powerful command-line analyzer that captures or "sniffs" TCP/IP packets.
Wireshark is an open source tool for profiling network traffic and analyzing TCP/IP packets.

The strace command shows us all the system calls our program made. 
System calls are the calls that the programs running in our computer make to the running kernel.

Understanding the root cause is essential for providing the long-term resolution.

Power cycling releases resources stored in cache or memory, which gets rid of the problem.  

A program keeping a state without any change can slow down a computer up until it is rebooted. 

PYTHON PROFILER
The cProfile module is used to count how many times functions are called, and how long they run.

We can precede the name of our commands and scripts with the "time" shell builtin and the shell will output execution time statistics when they complete.

The kcachegrind tool is used for profile data visualization that, if we can insert some code into the program, can tell us how long execution of each function takes.

 cProfile provides deterministic profiling of Python programs, including how often and for how long various parts of the program executed.

A script is CPU bound if you're running operations in parallel using all available CPU time.  

The futures module makes it possible to run operations in parallel using different executors. 

Memchached is a caching service that keeps most commonly accessed database queries in RAM.

Asyncio is a module that lets you specify parts of the code to run as separate asynchronous events.

Threading allows a process to split itself into parallel tasks.

Concurrency in computer science is the ability of different sections or units of a program, algorithm, or 
problem to be executed out of order or in partial order, without impacting the final result.

 If our program mainly finds itself waiting on local disks or the network, it is I/O bound. 

https://realpython.com/python-concurrency/

https://hackernoon.com/threaded-asynchronous-magic-and-how-to-wield-it-bba9ed602c32
